//THE THENGAN GODS
Hemesh - The god of hardship, suffering, frost and snow storms, he is credited with trying to destroy humanity by creating the season of frost, he is the god of the hunt, and as such it is widely believed that werewolves and other ferocious hateful carnivorous beasts are his minions. Hemesh feels no pain but is said to enjoy inflicting it upon humanity. People pray to Hemesh by making sacrifices and pleading that he leave them in peace and lessen the harshness of the Frost. Hemesh is thought to be more inclined toward animal blood sacrifices or feats of unlikely hunting prowess.
Azvald - The king of the gods, and the god of bloodlines, he created humanity and made them superior to the wild animals and beasts made by Hemesh; he embodies glory, pleasure, material well being, alcohol, boisterousness, and machismo (toughguy-ness). He is firstborn amongst the gods (who were all born of the endless fog). He is portrayed as greedy and self-serving (the self expands to ones family of course) He is the main god that emphasizes the importance of legacy, family, and duty to family. He fathered a godess named Yarcha who he loves immensely (by Azvold's example fathers are expected to dote on their daughters, the catch is that all daughters are expected to behave like Yarcha if they wish to be doted upon like her). People pray to Azvold to ask for blessings of good fortune, power, weatlh, joy, and personal or familial gain. Azvold fights hemesh's frost wyrms during the entire season of Frost... his inevitable victory brings about the Season of Bounty.
Yarcha - The goddess of love, devotion, loyalty, and beauty. This goddess is devoted to her father above all else, but is married to the god of war Kotlech at her father's request. This goddess is seen as the template for what all thengan women should be: dedicated to their husbands, loving, kind, subservient, and utterly obedient to their father above everyone else even their husband (obviously since her father is the king this is usually interpreted as loyalty to the crown above all else) most Thengan wives are expected to be more loyal to husbands than to fathers except in the event that one's father is of a much greater hierarchical status than their husband. Yarcha is said to have such beauty that a man would die of bliss to look upon her naked form. Though she is considered the goddess of love, this love is best phrased as the kind of love a daughter is expected to hold for her parents. Women pray to her for purity, and gracefulness. Men pray to her asking that she teach their daughters to be pure and obedient, or their wives to be caring and pleasing.
Kotlech - The god of war, he embodies bravery, glory, competition, and strength. Those that are strong pray to Kotlech to be stronger, those that are weak pray that Kotlech brings their protectors strength to defend them. The god of war is known to have a short temper, which proves to get him what he wants most of the time. This god embodies the philosophy of 'if you want something, that somebody else wants, fight them to get it.' If one man  hasa blade and the other doesn't, the man with the blade is right. There is no honour in arming an unarmed enemy. That is more akin to treason than anything. The god of war does  however permit mercy, however Kotlech's mercy looks like complete and utter domination of the defeated party's will. (that is mercy in thengan culture is to take the surrendering party into slavery.) The rules that the god of war sets for mercy are obviously different when the enemy is also thengan. A thengan should never avoid eye contact with his enemy, doing so is dishonourable and warrents immediate execution (that is unless the enemy is female then a lack of eye contact is what is expected). Thengans are never to enslave other Thengans according to the rules of warfair laid out by Kotlech. In one mythic battle involving the god of war, Kotlech ate the heart of his foe in order to gain his strength. In some ancient practices of Kotlesh worship, followers would follow suit and eat their defeated enemies hearts. This is frowned upon in contemporary thengan society as the sages have come to the conclusion that that is symbolic for plundering their land and wealth and taking what is theirs and thus becoming stronger.
Lilora - The queen of the gods and wife to Azvald... She is the goddess of passion, fertility, harvest, cunning, seduction, wild or intense emotions, and storms. People pray to her for rain, and they pray for good yields on the harvest. She is the cause of intense unwanted emotions such as sadness, fear, anxiety, paranoia, irritation, annoyance. All those little problems with humanity are attributed to Lilora. She is not hated for that though, for she is the mother of humanity by the seed of azvald. She represents the imperfections in humanity, and in Thengan culture women are taken to be less perfect than are men. Those women who act like the daughter of purity and loyalty (Yarcha), can rid themself of such impure and imperfect ways as those embraced by lilora. Crippling lust or romantic love is seen as Liloras doing, but she is not hated for that either. Just as Azvold married lilora, so must thengan men marry thengan woman, seduction, lust and romantic passion, is seen is the inevitable magnetism of the union of man and woman. Many Thengans appreciate lustiness quite a bit actually, so Lilora is on the recieving end of sexually or romantically inspired prayers like 'make her love me' etc. Lilora is prayed to for the fertility of a barren womb, as well as a barren field. She is in the wind. The breeze is often poetically referred to as if it were a tender caress by lilora. She is thought to be a godess of wit and cunning, and so is prayed to when their is need of an intelectual or scholarly need, or in some cases a need for a clever battle plan. Lilora is thought to rival the god of war in her ability to conquer, for when the storms blow, and when lightning strikes no man can raise his sword in defiance. Lilora is in stormy weather when she is mad. In order to appease her, people sacrifice valued household trinkets by leaving them on an alter for her. Lilora is said to actively defend humanity against Hemesh. It is said that she created an arrow of silver - first she invented silver by mixing a strand of her hair with water - to slay hemesh once and for all, but he shattered it into millions of pieces, and now it is said that silver ore is trace amounts of that arrow. It is assumed that silver slays the beasts that Hemesh created because Lilora intended the arrow to kill Hemesh himself.
Mehret - The god of fire and land. The land that all life forms live on was created by Mehret. Mehret is stubborn and unrelenting, but wise and allknowing, he is the second eldest god. He is responsible for spawning dragons from the depths (he did so in order to punish humans for stealing his flame for themselves, he is responsible for making demons (though their creation was an attempt at making something like humanity - he considered the attempt a failiure and buried them deep within his rocky molten domain). Mehret is always feared, but he is respected too. If somebody seeks hidden or lost knowledge they pray to him. It is thought that Mehret is utterly reasonable in his reactions to all things (he is the embodiment of much of Thengan reasoning and logic) If he is slighted he destroys the one who slighted him unrelentingly, otherwise his policy toward humanity has been largely helpful. In the tale where the humans stole his flame he was actually about to share his flame with them willingly, but they were treacherous and plotting so they took it from him. Mehret is responsible for the sun. He put the sun in the sky to help humans live, mostly because he owed his brother (the king) a favour. The sun is very heavy so every day it falls down and night comes, then in the morning Mehret lifts the sun back into the sky. Mehret embodies a strong work ethic, and he is prayed to for stamina often when workers are in the mines. Miners pray that Mehret does not trap them or crush them in the caves, and they pray that he gives their flame life so that they may see while they work. Mehret is often imagined with five eyes because he was the god that symbolically granted humans sight (he is also credited with advancing humans insights and ability to reflect on reality) Some see patience as a virtue that Mehret espouses, but it is highly contextual. He advocates for patience when one is hard at work and working toward a worthwhile end, but he acts without hesitation when it comes to revenge or retaliation to a slight, etc.

//THE FREYDIC GODS
Gemesh - The most revered god in the pantheon. He is the god of frost, patience, hardship, pain, enduring, survival, the wilderness, and he is the god of the hunt. The Freydic believe that Gemesh alone holds the key to the true afterlife, one in which through hardship the people have become more pure and good and worthy of glory. Gemesh embodies honour, stalwortness, and bravery. Alters to Gemesh often include culpris leaves to symbolize the process of healing ones character through enduring hardship well. They also when they can find one offer a tylun flower which symbolizes the ideal state of being and the potential that humanity has to achieve it: It is a rare and beautiful flower that can grow even from thick permafrost.
    Common blessing: 'Be it that the wisdom of Gemesh guide you, that his watchful eyes see you to a righteous destiny, and let bravery fill you where fear once lingered, in the name of Gemesh who gave us sustenance, but also frost, who gave us pain, but also Halmthafgh.' - Ukko the Sage
Urvold - Urvold is the god of festivities and warmth. Freydic people appreciate this god a lot, but the sages warn that worship of urvold makes men and women soft: 'One can only feel the cold's bite if they are accustomed to the warmth. Do not grow fond of the warmth for it will lead you astray.' Alcohol, especially mead is associated with this god. In ancient freydic practice of worshipping this god, some claimed he was a king among the gods, the story later became that Urvold lost his crown while he was drunk and could no longer call himself king among the gods. He still symbolically stands for plentifulness, wealth and power. His story is a classic tale of why kings and Jarls should take after Gemesh rather than Urvold if they wish to be good rulers. Urvold represents a misuse of power, and the corruption that self will and a ravenous appetite can wreak upon humanity. However, Urvold has long been forgiven for his lack of skillful leadership of the gods because merriment is still valued by the people of Freynor. The point is simply that one should never prioritize the ways of Urvold over those of Gemesh. The afterlife that Urvold offers humanity is said to end badly, for he who drinks of mead all day will awaken with a throbbing head in the morning. Freydic people still occasionally throw fertility festivals and harvest festivals in Urvold's name, and some less inspired Freydic people prefer Urvold still over Gemesh, even less commonly others insist that losing his crown was not enough to unthrone him, and that he is still the king of the gods. However, the popular consensus in Freydic culture is that he who loses his crown is not a king.
Jalsha - Jalsha is the Daughter of Urvold and Ilori. She is seen as a goddess of goodness, kindness and spiritual well being. She is obedient and well behaved, but she does not hesitate to question evil. Her loyalty is only given only to those that have proved to have earned it, but for those that have, she is the embodiment of familial, unconditional love. For the majority of Freydic peoples that believe in the fall of Urvold, Jalsha is not loyal, but rather sympathetic. She takes pity on her father and tries to make him see the error of his unyeilding dedication to pleasure and ecstacy. She never confronts him directly when she does this however, for Jalsha is also the goddess of cunning, she wisely interjects against his behavior with well timed thoughtful non-aggressive suggestions. etc. Thus in Freydic culture, the role of the daughter is not only to obey, but to politely correct their father's moral misteps. (The father still always has the last word.)
Kaatlech - The god of the sea, also the god of war. Unlike Kotlech from Thengan Mythology, Kaatlech is calm and calulated. He taught the freydic people how to build boats, and he taught them not to fear the sea. Kaatlech is the god of war, but he is more like a protector god to the freydic people than anything else. War is a tool that he uses as a last resort to save that which is dearest from harm. Much like Gemesh, Kaatlech values patience and deep reflection. When arctic storms brew, the freydic people often interpret it as a test of their will. It is not a hateful action against them but rather a loving one, for to test someone allows them to either grow stronger in character or die and go to The Great Valley of Halmthafgh where they can hunt drink and sing for the rest of their days (the sages are more likely to interpret it less literally as a place and more as a state of being, but to the average Freydic commoner, The Great Valley of Halmthafgh is a physical place they go when they die if they lived by Gemesh's values. While Gemesh provides guidance and character building hardship, as well as sustenance through hunting on land, Kaatlech does the same for the freydic people on the sea. They are often both regarded very highly. Warriors prey to both Kaatlech and Gemesh, they pray to be unmovable and brave from Gemesh, and they pray for ferocity and strength from Kaatlech. However it is not unheard of for prayers about bravery to be made out to Kaatlech, and those about strength to be made out to Gemesh, but the prior-mentioned arrangement is much more common.
Ilori - Ilori was once the queen of the gods before Urvold lost his crown in a drunken stupor. Some suggest that Ilori actually took away his crown, knowing that he would be unable to mislead humanity or the gods without it. Ilori is a goddess of beauty, wisdom, passion, and romantic love. She is responsible for the wind and the rain, and when she feels that people have grown too soft she like the other gods seeks to test humanity by conjuring great storms. Ilori is credited with birthing humanity, however many express skepticism that Urvold seeded the Freydic people. In Freydic oral story traditions it is said that Ilori slept with Gemesh to make the Freydic and Thengan people, that she slept with Kaatlech to make the sylkeem, and that she slept with Urvold finally to make the rest of the world. Urvold's spawn were the least worthy, and were infinitely inferior to those of Gemesh and Kaatlech. However, many sages have called these tales deceptions and that all humans are truly seeded from Gemesh. Others claim that she never slept with another god but her husband and that Urvold is indeed the father of humanity, though those of such a belief are uncommon in Freynor.
Naahrith - Naahrith is the god of fire and the god of rock and stone. Naahrith is highly regarded by is not without flaws. Many of the things the freydic regard as pure evil are attributed to Naahrith's brashness, arrogance, vengefulness, or stubbornness. Many tales have been told about Naahrith's failings. In one tale, Naahrith was teaching his flame to humans, his students were learning it quickly and wanted to know more so out of curiosity studied from his tablets whilst he was away. When he returned he regarded their study as a sort of robbery (in the Thengan version of this tale the students actually steal a magical flame away from him and his anger is more justified) out of jelousy of his own students he summoned giant beasts of fire into being, dragons. When his students tried to hide in caves, Naahrith crushed them with rocks. Only a few survived his wrath. But Naahrith regretted his brashness afterwards, lamenting the loss of his students who were like children to him. He punished himself by committing himself to humanity wellbeing by lifting up the sun every morning to light the sky. Naahrith is also said to be a father of demons, the goddess Ilori one day bragged that she was the highest of the gods because she birthed humanity itself from her womb. This made Naahrith jealous and filled with rage. He tried to make his own version of humanity out of fire and ash, but his creations aspired only to destroy so he locked them away in the deep, regretfull of his brashness. Flames symbolize spiritual insight to freydic people, because Naahrith was the one to illuminate the world to humanity. Thusly fire is common in temples and the worship of Naahrith is commonly paired with that of Gemesh. To the freydic people, Naahrith is exactly like fire. If you are not careful his ways will burn you and leave you not but ash, however, without the gifts that Naahrith has offered and continues to offer humanity, humanity could not see the path to The Great Valley of Halmthafgh. Almost all renditions of Naahrith depict him with five eyes.

//THE OLD SPIRIT (Orgell)
A belief that at the heart of all of the oni and spirits and magic in the world their is truly just a single source and that this source is also the source of consciousness and purpose. They believe that everything, the good, the evil, the mundane, was buil to serve a fundamental purpose and has worked to form a cosmic balance, but that everything is now decaying over time and that their is a need to escape it otherwise everyones' souls would be claimed by the fading of reality (The Fading for short). The single source of reality is said to be a conscious spirit entity of infinite complexity that created the orgish people before all others in order to save its vast creation by raising up the world into the light of the cosmos. They believe that while other humans were destined to remain in the tangible realm of reality, that they have been chosen by the old spirit that created time and the universe to become cosmic trascendential beings that are above reality and that are not bound to reality, but rather are free to guide those less equipped than themselves to escape the otherwise inevitable fading by transcending into the cosmos. They believe that the orgish people are the only ones who can transcend creation without direct cosmic guidance because their peoples purpose is to save all of reality from the fading by moving all beings to a higher plane of being. The fading is seen as the balance of reality starts to tipp to extremes, for instance they take widespread disease and civil war in Vardania, warfair between Thengaria and the Kels, and war between Cephrite, Aldrekai, Nirwaden and themselves to be a sign that the balance of reality has begun its descent toward evil and madness.
    //THE EVERLASTING SPIRIT (Nirwaden)
    A belief in a progenetor of all reality that is a good loving spirit that is the source of all souls and is the source of all that is good. The parts of reality that are not good are explained as being an explicit rejection of the light of the eternal spirit. Fire is holy and of the light, burning that which follows the way of the void (the absence of the eternal spirit) purifies the soul and returns it to the light.
        //THE EVERAXII (Aldrekai)
        A belief that the Everaxii, the monarchical and spiritual leader of the Aldrekii peoples, is a living breathing incarnation of the spirit everlasting.
        //THE DUALITY (Vardania)
        A belief that the void, rather than being an absence of goodness is a diety in and of itself that seeks only to lead others astray from the light of the everlasting spirit and fill the world with evil, madness, and corruption.
            //THE RADIANT SPIRIT (Vardanian Cult)
            A cult branch of the religion that believes that the everlasting spirit has manifested itself in as a glowing light in what the cult deems to be a holy cave that is the new center on which a new church hierarchy should be constructed. They believe that this glowing incarnation of the everlasting spirit judges those that it deems followers of the void and casts the evil from them much like flames are believed to do.

//MAGICAL SECULARISM
A belief that their is no everlasting spirit, god, gods, etc. but that rather, reality works based on an eternal code of logic and science and magic (which to them is inherently logical). Dieties do exist, but they are no more than creatures or beings that have not been studied enough to understand fully thus far. A leading theory in magical secularism is that dieties were once humans that grew so powerful with magic that they transcended a need for their biological physical form. They believe that everything can be understood, learnt, and interpreted in terms of logic, science, mathematics, and magicology. The demagogues that lead the religion are the maguses who head magical research and development in the Magic College of Cephrite.
