//NOT DRAWN, NOT ADDED
Velozai - A Thengan Badlands velociraptor-like reptile beast that distracts and surrounds its prey as a small pack in order to eat it.
Bazul - A Thengan bull-like creature native to the Thengan Badlands, it can charge very quickly but it cannot turn well while it is charging. They have gnarly twisted shar horns and short, sleek, jagged, bristly fur.
//TO BE ADDED INTO THE CODE
Deth - An intelligent, sentient goblinoid that lives in the vardanian grey grass plains: They construct villages, war with one another, celebrate with dances, develop technologies: medical, architectural and militaristic; they hunt and gather food and supplies, and they have a hierarchical tribal system that includes a chief and a shaman.
Mummy - A cursed Zetian dead. The Zetians wrap their dead to preserve their body for the afterlife, but one of these preserved bodies is reanimated with a demonic curse.
Na'ag - Also known as the Sandswallower. A ginormous desert dwelling mammal that sifts the sand for insects to munch on. They are lazy and do not seek out larger prey unless they are particularly hungry, or are bothered and are acting in self defence. "A snack in self defence..."
Druog - A slim flying black serpent that has pointed venom tipped scales and spines, a particularly venomous bite, and that (if female) lays venomous spiny eggs to protect their young.
Shril - A south sea dwelling crustacean that has a toxic punch to its bite for which it has slender but long pointed fangs in rows in a mouth that barely fits them all.
Leshy - [in plural they are known as Leshen] A powerful malevolent (from many a human perspective) nature spirit that protects (in a manner of speaking) the balance of nature. It can summon shadow crows, it can summon living thorny vines around itself, and in the rare instance where a human cannibal is in its proximity it can create a Wendigo with a powerful curse. They make bone circle arrangements around the woods (Wendigo Circles)... they have two hearts (one inside of them and one outside of them) The carnal heart inside of them is vulnerable only after the heart of nature is destroyed, that is to say... it hides its secondary external beating heart of nature in the woods, and until it is destroyed, the Leshy has more powerful magics and is physically invincible.
Shushken - A demonic creature that becomes petrified when gazed upon, and returns to flesh when it is not being observed. They excrete a white gummy substance that takes over human flesh and turns it into a hive for its eggs. They are only known to make nests in humans. All else they view as food.
Bleeder - A cursed spider-like being that inherently produces human flesh as its web, its own flesh is in fact human flesh. They are constantly suffering and their only way to react to that suffering is to exact their pain unto others by horribly mutilating them and torturing them to death. Bleeders steal human babies and raise them into new bleeders in their bloody pit nests.
    //UP NEXT
    //INCOMPLETE BUT IN PROGRESS

//NOT YET ADDED INTO THE GAME
Pelcrid - An orange flame slime creature that grows larger when exposed to high temperatures. They are extremely weak to frost.
Werewolf - A cursed beast that infects the humans that it bites with its monstrous disease (it is very weak to silver; it can be killed by ordinary means)
Vampire - A blood pact with an arch demon created these nearly immortal beings... They can fly, suck the lifeblood from their victims, and can carry enemies up into the air and let them fall to their doom. Vamprism is not spread with a bite, rather one must make a blood pact in order to become one. The only two ways to kill a vampire are to stake it through the heart with a silver stake, or to infect it with lycanthropy.
Sheep - A northern domesticated herd animal that is covered in soft fuzzy thick wool and that yields a tasty meat when brought to slaughter
Jinn - An extremely powerful cosmic being that comes from the chaos realm. If it is captured it owes its captor a single wish, then it is returned to the chaos realm. If a jinn is freed, it can choose to stay in the worldly realm and wreak havoc.
Skeleton - A skeletal warrior that wields a short sword (it can be killed several times before dying, so it is best to break its bones when it falls over to keep it from reanimating)
Lich - A skeletal mage that blasts decaying shadow fire magic (it can be killed many more times than a regular skeleton, and its bones are enchanted so that only someone with sufficient magiccan break the bones)
CorpseGolem - A golem formed of hexed bones.
Drech - A carnivorous creature that dwells in the northern region of Vardania. It is technically amphibeous, but it usually does not live near water. They reproduce asexually by cloning themselves, and when they are injured they will find another injured drech to fuse intoand become one with.
ArcticFox - A variety of fox that lives primarily in western cold snowy regions but that also live (though less commonly) in central snowy regions in the far north.
SnowyOwl - A northern owl that has white feathers that blend in with the snowy landscapes it inhabits. They tend to live in norther woodlands. There are giant varieties that are ruthless and hostile. The regular sized snowy owls just fly around eating lizards and stuff.
Glassworm - A worm made of enchanted magical glass. It is invisible and can turn its victims into glass with a single bite. The only way to see the glassworm is if you are sleep deprived.
Holn - A giant northern jellyfish that generates electrical currents and uses them to shock and kill its prey.
Taebjuur - A cartilaginous northern sea creature with several rows of overlapping sword sharp teeth. They are attracted to the smell of blood in the water and they love the taste of human flesh. They are extremely aggressive hunters and are unrelenting in the persuit of their prey. Killing is so instinctual for them that they will even hunt prey after they have just fed or are no longer hungry. They do it just for the thrill.
Pixi - A small winged bipedal fairy that has two arms it uses to cling onto its prey. Pixies are native to the Vardanian Hollows and the area around Blacklake in Cephrite. Pixies have a magical venom that causes their victim to desicate into a flakey papery husk. Pixies are extremely ravenous and can take around 5 bites per second. Pixies have dimensional magics that allow them to transport large pieces of the terrain whereever they wish (they do so as a means of messing with people and animals, but also because they find it amusing to deform the terrain around them). Pixies can be killed by ordinary means. Pixies are very chaotic creatures, they have a variety of moods that they switch between seemingly randomly: playful, lusty, social, and hungry. Female pixies are large and male pixies are small. The males fertilize the females which then allows the females to produce pixi dust. Pixi Dust contrary to popular myth does not allow you to fly, in truth consuming or inhaling it is extremely dangerous. Upon consuption/inhalation the imbiber feels elated and euphoric, but that is only because the pixi dust releases pixi growth enzymes that it needs to grow into pixi eggs. The pixi dust lodges itself along the esophagus and airway of the victim, or sometimes but less comonly in the host's pores, the dust quickly grow into lemon sized eggs. Once the eggs are mostly grown within the host new growth enzymes cause the host to develop an excess of saliva; the host coughs/chokes/spits/expels the growing eggs... during this process the hosts airway and esophagus are in most cases completely clogged with saliva lubricated pixi eggs, thusly the host often sufficates before their body can manage to expel the total amount of eggs within them. Once outside of the host the eggs complete their maturation and then hatch. Within each cluster of eggs between 1 and 9 pixies survive the hatching process.
Starfish - A pink starfish that lives along the south sea coastline. They eat small critters and bugs by expelling their stomach onto their victim.
Pufferfish - A small southern fish native to the south sea that puffs up when scared exposing venomous spines in the process.
Velid - A northern beach dwelling shelled pink slime that has sharp poisonous teeth that it stabs into its prey to kill and dissolve it so that it can be more easily consumed.
Sutetchi - A white, red and black jungle dwelling spider native to the hot bamboo rainforests of Orgell. These are also known as Jack spiders by non-orgish.
Reshid - A dark pinkish tropical clinging toothed slime, also called a toothed wall slime.
Omlai - An orgish glade dwelling insect that has the shape and appearance of a glade lilypad. It hides amongst patches of glade lilypads in order to take its prey by surprise. They are good swimmers, but they are also fearsome on land.
Seonjang - A glade dwelling water skipper that uses surface tension to stand and hop around the surface of the water.
Tiger - A orange and black striped tiger native to the orgish bamboo jungles. They pounce on thier prey by lunging at them and tearing at them with there sharp claws. If you attack a tiger it will run away, but not for long, it will circle back and lunge on you again... Tigers are particularly aggressive when confronting other tigers, since tigers are very territorial. Tigers can see well in low light conditions and are excellent swimmers.
Pig - An orgish variety of domestic swine that has a ravenous appetite and will eat just about anything remotely edible. They wander around in the muck looking for bugs and roots to eat when they are not stuffing their face with other food or napping. Pigs birth litters of up to 3 piglets and a mother can nurse up to 3 piglets. If you kill a pig, they are smart enough to recognize you as a threat and will attempt to flee.
GladeWasp - A large Orgish stinging insect that dwells in the tropical orgish bamboo rainforests and glades. Their sting is more venomous than that of a bog wasp. Glade wasps and bog wasps are closely related species that evolved together. Glade wasps are smaller, lighter, faster, and have more lethal stings. Bog wasps are larger, and lazier.
Skarabaus - A fleshy beetle that's body is a symbiotic combination of a deadly, grey fungus and flesh. The beetle scurries about the hollows eating small insects, algaes, plants, and carrion. If a creature seeks to attack it, the skarabaus will deconstruct its body into a fleshy fungal outgrowth that releases grey spores that when inhaled cause their victim's body to fatigue severely by slowing their body's vital functions (this can cause cell death, and can be fatal).
Ha - Also known as the bamboo-leaf bug, the ha swarm eats the leaves of small bamboo plant and hides as the plant's leaves.
Panda - A white and black bear native to the orgish bamboo jungles. They eat small clusters of bamboo. The mother pandas guard their cubs fiercely, the male bears on the other hand just go around eating stuff and stick mostly to themselves.
RedKoiFish - A red splotched white giant koifish that is native to the glades of Orgell.
    BlueKoiFish - A blue splotched white giant koifish that is native to the glades of Orgell.
Yong - The spirit gatekeepers of the spirit world, their sting displaces souls into the spirit world temporarily.
Snapjaw - A small Orgish gator native to the glades. When it bites it clings on to its prey and twists and wiggles before letting go.
Swan - An elegant bird native to the glades of Orgell, they spend their days swimming in the tranquil waters.
ShenqianshouBeetle - Also known as a marksman beetle, this beetle inhabits the Orgish bamboo jungles where it eats mostly small bugs and low foliage. When they feel threatened they will stand on their hind legs and shoot its thin, hard, long, black needle-like teeth (which it can grow plentifully and has in abundant supply) as a projectile towards the percieved threat. Occasionally, as a means to help with digestion, a shenqianshou beetle will eat soil which includes small fragments of brightstone ore, this causes the creatures flesh to have a glowing effect that is dangerous to those around it. (set their ID to marksman to make a more tactical version)
Purpura - An herbivorous, large, purple insect with blue legs that lives in the Orgish cave system that runs through the northern glade
Mulcreu - A mouth-faced monkey native to the glades of Orgell. It has a circular mouth lined with long sharp teeth for eating flesh. They prefer to be in groups of three to five as they are very social creatures, but they are occasionally be found in pairs or even alone. They are very fond of jumping... They jump over obstacles that get in their way, and they will even jump over patches of mud or water that are hindering the path to their prey.
Xevolati - A carnivorous Orgish jungle plant that encapsulates its victims and digests them whole.
Hummingbird - A small bird that feeds on nectar from plants with its long needlelike beak.
RedLanternBug - A large red orgish bug with a brightly lit abdomen that pierces the dark of the night. They often inhabit orgish jungle cave systems.
LanternBug - A large orgish bug with a brightly lit abdomen that pierces the dark of the night.
Iguana - A type of lizard native to the orgish jungles. They eat bugs and do lizardy things like iguanas do.
Giavev - A large orgish jungle insect with a velvety outer layer of flesh that resembles the delicate texture of a smooth flower petal. Giavevs can shed their body when they are injured to escape what would be a fatal wound, they can only do this when they have a large reserve of stemcells available to rapidly create a new outer flesh layer for them to slip into.
Tya - A grey and black Orgish jungle bird with red and white tail feathers and peculiar red and white head feather fan thingy.
Nayu - An Orgish cave dwelling pink carnivore that has a tail that mimics the yuna plant that lets out occasional bursts of light as a form of both warning to potential predators and communication with others of its kind. They also do this to attract insects toward it so that it may eat them more conveniently.
RedPanda - A species that is distantly related both to panda bears, and racoons. It is a native of the hot Orgish jungles in the south. They eat bugs, eggs, and tiny animals.
Echidna - An Orgish anteater native to the Orgish jungle. They slurp up insects with their long sticky tongue.
Jackal - A large variety of golden-brown furred wild dog. They are native to the jungles of Orgell.
Geomi - A variety of turret spider that is native to the jungles of Orgell. They are a highly social spider and they have a pack hunting mentality. Their turrets are connected to complex interwoven underground tunnel systems that they share with other geomi spiders so that they can all easily access prey where ever it may be found.
Bushmaster - A red snake with a golden pattern along its back. Bushmaster snakes are native to Orgell and they get their name because they are usually found accidentally when people go near the bushes that they sleep in. They are one of the most venomous snakes in the world.
Cobra - A green snake that's body becomes thinner and somewhat hood like towards its head. It is native to The Orgish Glades where it minds its own business in the low foliage. It spits a poisonous spray in order to kill both its prey and its predators.
Dragonfly - A giant green dragonfly native to the glades of Orgell
Needleworm - An aquatic needle mouthed worm native to the Orgish glades
Erokira - An Orgish Jungle dwelling land-locked raptor that has a colorful scaley hide and vestigial feathers. Erokira are extremely vicious pack hunters that pile onto their prey to eat it. They form packs and hunt together. They are very social creatures. Each pack of Erokira select a pack leader whose job it is to pick out the prey they will all hunt together. The others hide under the cover of the bamboo to obscure themselves from view, while the leader distracts or baits the prey by presenting itself such that they prey sees it as alone or undefended. Erokira hunt other carnivores as well as other creatures.
Shishizhe - An Orgish jungle dwelling spider that builds a large vertically curved web that catches creatures both in the air and on the ground. The spider oft' ventures from its web to hunt and kill prey and drag it back to its web.
RedJungleFowl - A orange jungle bird native to Orgell. The males fight one another for dominance over the females. They are averse to water. They are basically wild jungle chickens...
Agaru - A large aquatic cave dwelling variety of angler that has a long sticky toothed tongue that it mauls and thrashes its prey with. They are native to the cave systems below the Orgish jungle.
Kabuto - A giant red beetle that is native to the cave systems below the Bamboo Jungles of Orgell. They are omnivorous, mostly they eat cave fungus, but they will occasionally eat carrion. They are hostile to things that are unfamiliar to them that set foot in their territory, do not mistake their diet for a mild temper...
Shoko - An Orgish jungle spirit that exists as a plurality with one central form from which its being is spawned. The central form tends to remain in the spirit world while the extension of itself exists simultaneously in both the spirit realm and the mortal realm. When shokos are slain they become dormant within their skull. They will soon reawaken and take up another semi-tangible form if left on the ground for long enough. The only way to kill a shoko permanently is to destroy its skull using powerful, magical, alchemic compounds.
Carnid - A redish-pink subterranean variety of slime that is native to the cave systems of northern Orgell. Carnids form tentacle-like legs to crawl on land and swim across bodies of water, they can also form toothed slime tongues that they can use to grab their prey and drag them toward their center mass to be digested. Carnids can make up to 7 tongues at once! They consume corpses and live prey to add to their mass. The larger a carnid becomes the more dangerous, powerful, and versatile it becomes. There is no upper limit to how much a carnid can grow. Carnids have anti-magical properties, and are fairly resistant to normal types of fire.
    //NO DROPS YET ADDED
Drake - The descendents of dragons: drakes have evolved differently than the parent species of dragons, they have only two legs rather than four, and they use their wings as arms when they walk. Drakes are nowhere near as magical as dragons are: while dragons are sentient and able to control the forces of magic, drakes have devolved overtime into wild beasts that mindlessly covet wealth and riches. Drakes are only magical in three ways: they communicate telepathically with those who have enough magic to listen, their bodies are magically resistant to dragon fire in all of its forms, and they can produce dragon fire that is expelled at will with tremendous force. Drake scales are hard to break, but they are nowhere near as impenitrable as dragon scales are. Drake bones are black, relavitely light weight, extremely durable, and completely hollow. Drakes, unlike dragons, are capable flyers and can stay in the air for a significant duration without tiring. Dragons cannot fly at all for they are much too heavy. Drakes are often times called Dragons by those who do not bother distinguishing between the various subspecies of dragons. With enough magical eminence or sheer beast handling expertise, a drake can be tamed, companionized, and ridden. Dragon fire is sticky like napalm and cannot be put out by water or a lack of fuel source as it burns using cosmic magical energy that not even repel spells can extinguish; it will burn out on its own eventually, but it will stick around for a while. Drakes are feared by all in the lands, for they have been known to ravage villages eat entire countrysides of livestock, melt down fortresses, steal treasure, and kidnap humans of rank as trophies of its conquest and domination.
Druog - A cave dwelling Vardanian wyrm that has extremely dangerous venom stored throughout its body, its sharp scales tips can transfer the venom easily. It lays spined eggs that can transfer the same venom.
Harpy - A winged Vardanian beast with a sickening screech that strikes fear into the hearts of even the bravest warriors. Harpies are genetically related to Griffins and contrary to common belief they are not closely related to humans and are not a goblinoid species, nor are they cursed in any way. Mother harpies only guard their eggs (they lay 3-6 eggs at a time) until they hatch, once they do the mother leaves them to fend for themselves. It takes harpies a long time to grow to full size, so many people often mistake the baby harpies as being adults...
Mehib - A giant pink reptillian insect with many eyes, scaley legs, and long scaley arms with a long sharp blade extending from each one. They approach their prey slowly, but then when they get close they charge wildly at it. Mehibs cut apart their prey into small pieces before they eat them.
Turatura - A large bipedal Orgish reptile that is a descendent of Dragons. It inhabits and dominates the Orgish jungles. Their front legs are too small and weak to support their weight, so they use their tail to balance themselves on their back legs only. They cannot breathe fire as they are only a very distant relative of the giant fire breathing dragons of legend and have gone through thousands of years of evolutionary changes to be more adapted to its environment. It has thick armoured scales, as well as thin scales that mimic the appearance of bamboo leaves. They are ferocious carnivores and the undoubted apex predator of the Orgish jungle.
Tao - A giant sloth beast that lives in the bamboo jungles of Orgell. They eat the giant bamboo stalks after trampling through them and slicing them down with their long sharp claws. They are herbivorous, but that doesn't mean that they will not kill to defend themselves if they perceive a threat.

//ALREADY IN THE GAME
Ardil - A red squirrel with three tails
Soldier - A human soldier
    Doppelganger - A humanesque nechromantic creation that imitates the players very being... (this is made by giving a soldier the ID: Doppelganger or Unhinged Doppelganger)
Person - A normal human
Humpty - Technically they are human... Um, but in truth they have long been experimented upon with powerful magics such that they have lost their human form. The experimentation was intended to produce a being that could biologically grow a powerful magic compound used in the some of the most advanced elixirs, one previously very rare and difficult to obtain. Humpties' connective cord known as the chalaza holds this magical compound inside of it. In terms of behavior, humpties are just like humans (for they were magically evolved from humans). They talk, walk, drink, fight, craft, laugh, joke, tease... etc. However, humpty reproduction is completely inhuman. They reproduce by kissing and then later the female spits out a baby humpty (from her mouth).  //ArtificialIntelligenceAccess.push(new Unit(3600, 2500, "Person", false, "Mr. Dumpty", {race: "Humpty", faction: "Cephrite", personality: "violent", outfit: ["none", 8], weapon: ["none", [3, 2], 3, 22, 2], ranged: [false, "arrow", 1, 2000, 1, 6, 0, "none", 1.25], patrolStops: 0, patrolLoop: false, route:[[0, 0], [0, 0]], kid: true, kidSize: 2})); //ArtificialIntelligenceAccess.push(new Unit(3400, 2500, "Soldier", false, "Mrs. Dumpty", {race: "Humpty", faction: "Cephrite", con: 5, speed: 0.85, outfit: ["none", 9], weapon: ["none", [3, 3], 3.5, 25, 2], ranged: [false, "arrow", 8, 2000, 1, 6, 0, "none", 1.25], patrolStops: 0, patrolLoop: false, route:[[0, 0], [0, 0]], kid: true, kidSize: 2.1}));
Tunsk - A mole-like creature that hdes in burrows
Lizard - A lizard that lives in the northern forests
Mofu - A large, winged, orange bird
Naaprid - A common norther plains game animal
Viper - A thick and short venomous temperate snake that lives in wooded areas and forests
BlackBear - A black bear
Grib - A vicious large mouthed beast
StoneGolem - A magical creature of earth with a body of rocks
Evrak - A giant lizard-like thick skinned carnivore
Avrak - A giant lizard-like thick skinned carnivore with a spiked tail
Grewble - A mudBog inhabiting insect that uses its proboscus to inject acidic venom into its prey
Ut - A giant tentacly beast that leaves sticky slime trails in its wake
Hyeling - An ice goblin
HyelingSoldier - An ice golblin warrior
Varn - A brown dog/bear creature
BrolleWorms - Flesh eating worms
Ulgoy - A flesh eating tube plant that lives in cold and temperate climates
SpittingMudFly - An acid spitting giant fly originally native to the Kellish mudbogs, but are known to exist in pockets outside of such habitats. They tend to be attracted to muddy boggy refuse.
Glutid- An ice slime snail creature
Anter - A giant ant
MountainFrich - A giant black bare bellied rodent
Frich - A large bare bellied rodent
Bees - busy honey bees
Golgemoff - A spiderlike creature with blinding mouth tentacles
Neev - A Beer fairy (it can only be seen while drunk)
GreyWolf - A type of Wolf that is grey
WinterWolf - A type of wolf that is white
Beruln - A monstrous mountain dwelling animal
Narthwarp - An insect that lives in northern forests
Grush - A turtle like creature that disguises itself as a very similar bush
Shehid - A half insect half slime that has a paralyzing acidity
Nog - originally "nogril", a bestial and rabid creature similar to goblins but have much less intelligence
Olkrin - A giant beast of doom
Conejo - Rabbits that roam randomly...
Skol - Vicious temperate woodland canines found especially throughout Thengaria.
Boulchom - A savage plains beast that lunges into its attacks and charges past its foes
Oolid - A standard green slime creature
Tilk - A black oodling tentacle mouthed spider that lives in swamps and dungeons
Thueg - A shelled carnivorous blind ferocious hunter sort of creature
Lombris - A giant worm that burrows quickly through the earth with its teeth and eats its helpless unsuspecting prey on the surface (nicknames: "Bris"/"Lomb")
Etna - A deadly venomous spider like creature that only attacks what it finds stuck in its web
Fletter - A flying yellow insect that sucks nectar from plants with its proboscis
Hoffalgre - An herbivore that lives in temperate woodlands, (they are mammals that reproduce and feed on whatever plants are available: the young nurse)
Waanti - An arctic game animal
Ancient Being - A withered demon from another realm that teleports with blinding shadow fog, casts seeking flame blasts, summons giant fire breathing bone spider demons, and sucks the soul of its victims
Ancient Crawler - A large fire-breathing demonic bone spider from another realm
Balkur - A vicious saber-toothed tundra stalker of the frozen north (they are territorial, and though they usually know to stay out of each other's way they will fight to the death if they encounter each other)
Miter - A vampiric beast that crawls on all fours and leeches life from its victims through its pronged long black tongue.
MudBeetle - A giant brown beetle that lives in the mudflats of temperate regions, as well as mudbogs and swamps
Koobu - A sleek short white furred arctic canine that eats plants, insects, and carrion
BeachMite - A grey insect that scurries about the northern coastlines eating carrion
Cangrejo - A giant purple armored crab that lives along the arctic coastal regions of the north
Anemone - A giant green oogling anemone that has a gooey toxin coating that pusses from microscopic pores in its tentacles that it uses to kill its prey
Seal - A grey seal that lives on the arctic coast
Cloimid - A purple slime that lives in a shell and stays motionless until its prey walks in from of its mouth then it pulls it in. They can be found in northern coastal regions.
Walrus - A large walrus, walruses live on the norther coastal regions
Basilisk - A beast of legends said to be the king of the snakes with its only weakness being the lowly tunsk, a ground dwelling mammal - (Most of what is known about these creatures in folktales is incorrect) They are giant six-legged lizards that live underground and are often summoned into existence initially but can lay eggs to maintain their population - Their gaze petrifies whatever living being is seen by it, save for tunsks, but tunsks still fall prey to the basilisk's deadly venomous fangs (the most dangerous venom in the world it melts you from the inside out and doesn't stop until there's nothing left of you) Basilisks suck the melted innards of the petrified victims through the magical stone that forms only over the first inch of flesh with their fangs
Gulfrey - A tropical giant poisonous centipede creature that lives in the jungle
Torper - A giant tropical wasp creature that lives in the jungle
Etyr - A tropical scaled bug wolf creature that lives in the jungle
Yioshk - A savanna prowler (big-cat / hyena) that has an elongated face and large sharp claws
Drile - A large amphibious reptile that inhabits the brackish savannah rivers
Zarbu - A massive striped equestrian creature that lives mostly in the kellish savannah (The males are huge, and are known to be one of the fastest creatures in the lands)
Taipan - A slender and extremely venomous variety of snake that slithers about the savannah
Mugmul - A hairy, nut-eating, goblinoid mammal that inhabits the thinly wooded patches of the savannah
Rhinoceros - A thick grey skinned beast that lives in the savannah - it will charge its victims with the large curved horn on its head
Boar - A wild hairy swine that will charge its predators with its tusks
BorbBeetle - An insect that can be found in eastern temperate regions
Boggart - A malevolent fairy that causes minor mischief, they can be found both indoors and outdoors. If a Boggart is given a name or is angered it will become wild and violent. Boggarts may occasionally develop friendships with innocents and manipulate them into doing or thinking evil and also into giving them a name.
Duende - A fairy that can teleport and leave false copies of itself about while draining the wakefulness out of its victims
Molte - A hulking carnivorous woodland beast that hunts with smell and echolocation. They have corrosive saliva, so their bites can be nasty.
Horse - A quadruped that lives in the eastern temperate grasslands; they often graze in herds
Phantom - A type of ghost that only haunts the earthly plane in the nighttime: dusk, dawn, night; it is tied to its bones and will die when they are burnt. A phantom is made when someone dies tragically in a way that demands retribution that the soul feels was not rendered. Thus, phantoms are all vengeful in nature.
Peacock - An illustrious temperate bird that spreads its colorful and long tail feathers to scare aware potential predators by making itself seem larger
Changeling - A fairy that seeks immortality by trapping the soul of a child and stealing their form. Changelings are scared of iron. Changelings can not die while they are inhabiting a stolen form.
BlackTroll - A black furred jungle troll that can be found alone or in communities. If there are only a few trolls they will warn you to stay away by making aggressive motions, however if there are many, they will attack you without warning. Black Trolls have one of the fastest regeneration rates among trolls (for their size at the very least).
Kigarii - A black and red, feline-esque, panther-like, spined jungle creature. (They have a mechanic wherein they will attack if they sense weakness or provocation from the player, if the player scares them off it will run away instead)
Crenid - A yellow slime that lives in the jungle, unlike most other slimes it is particularly capable of surviving being cut into bits: the smaller bits become new crenids. It eats the dead to which it is adjacent, and with the new mass enlarges. Crenids are often found in medium to small packs.
Decipula - A giant venus fly trap that eats small to medium sized animals that get too close
Boa - A large jungle snake that kills its prey by constricting it then swallowing it whole
PoisonDartFrog - two varieties of jungle dwelling dart frog that have deadly poison in their skin: alpha = "orange", non-alpha = "green"
Matna - A small pack spider that lurks on its wide ground-built webs waiting to devour its prey killing it with its super venomous bite. It lives in the jungle.
Babosa - A large pinkish slug that lives in the jungle; it leaves a trail of acidic slime in its wake
Pyromoth - A black and red moth that is most active at night time. It lives in the jungle. It has a combustible substance on its wings that make sparks as it flies, it does this to scare away potential predators. Its web is fire-proof.
Aranea - A large tarantula-like spider that lives in the jungle; it lives in dug out burrows or large holes in the ground; it has a highly acidic bite; it releases the hairs on its back when it feels threatened (when it is injured enough), these hairs stun its foes
Borea - A yellow and black spitting spider that spits an acidic web that dissolves its prey; they live in the jungle (they are particularly prudent when it comes to danger as they will only approach a target if it has first been entangled in web)
Salisea - A venomous orange and black striped leaping spider that lives in the southern jungles; it clings to its victim and ravenously eats it alive.
Gorgon - A large green mantis-like stick bug that has six long legs and two bladed arms. (it uses an attack bubble and can roam)
Cruorcca - A reddish vine plant with extremely sharp orangish yellow needles that inject acid into its foes that digests them; to eat its prey the cruorcca plant wraps itself around the pussy body of its victim
ZafBeetle - A yellow shelled jungle beetle that feasts on the famously deadly Cerebris mushroom (it has a unique resistance to its effects which is helpful in developing a Cerebris cure)
PetraBeetle - A long small green beetle that lives in the jungle
Venandi - A cerebris mushroom infected human.
AraneaVenandi - A cerebris mushroom infected aranea.
EtyrVenandi - A cerebris mushroom infected etyr.
Silter - A thengan insect that hides among scilt plants to avoid predators and to ambush unsuspecting prey
KorskBeetle - A medium sized black and white beetle that lives in the Thengan woodlands
Cheshire - A Thengan predator that inhabits the forests. Cheshires are stealthy and aggressive, they can climb trees, and they enjoy hunting humans that enter the woods.
Fox - A temperate canine species that lives in the woodlands of Thengaria (though they can be found less commonly in the more southern regions of Vardania exclusively in the royal woods)
Crow - A black feathered bird that is highly social. If it sees the player kill one of its fellows it will fly away.
    ShadowCrow - A living embodiment of shadow magicin the form of a crow, it unfurls its shadow self upon completing its  attack which damageas the enemy with magic and destroys the physical crow shell the magical entity was using. (this can be made by setting a crow's alpha to "shadow")
GrizzlyBear - A large brown bear that dwells in the deeps of the old growth forests of Thengaria; it charges its prey with a bite then starts to maul it to death if the initial attacks were unsuccessful. the alpha value "kag" summons a unique Grizzly Bear that is covered in scars and larger than any other.
Borgal - A large Thengan mammal that is wildly savage and carnivorous, they kill for sport... they are bloodthirsty monsters.
Deer - A brown furred quadruped with white spots and antlers that lives primarily in the forests of Thengaria
Badger - A large black and white rodent that lives in the misty woods of Thengaria
Koivaya - An eyeless brown furred beast that lives in the Thengarian woodlands and plains, as well as those of Vardania (it reproduces and has inherited genetics)
Varonoi - A black raven-like bird that lives in Vardania
VecherBug - A small grey bug that lives in Vardania
ThegolThorn - An acidic, carnivorous thorn plant that grows in Vardania
Bat - A small flying rodent that sees with echolocation and is largely nocturnal
Ghoul - A black furred, vardanian, corpse eater that lives in the woodlands and grasslands. They dig burrows and lay their eggs in carrion.
Vreck - A Vardanian canine/rodent that hunts in packs in which a single alpha leads the pack everywhere it goes. They live in the temperate woodlands of Vardania.
Mimic - The fairy form of the mimic that can change into any of the varieties of mimic at suitable locations (scenery objects called mimicry that specify what type of mimic); mimics are amphibious and are much faster in water. Mimics can not change form while frozen.
HouseMimic - A mimic that has taken the form of a small Vardanian home. It walks on stilt legs and can easily pass through water and over units.
CrateMimic - A mimic that has taken the form of a small Vardanian crate. It has six legs and the top of the crate lifts to reveal its sharp teeth.
BarrelMimic - A mimic that has taken the form of a Vardanian barrel. It pushes its self around like a squid (it is faster in water) The front of the barrel opens up to take a massive bite out of its prey.
CribMimic - A mimic that has taken the form of a Vardanian baby crib. It is slow in water but fast on land. It moves sort of like it were a deer.
TentMimic - A mimic that has taken the form of a Vardanian tent. It has low health and extremely high damage. It moves rapidly.
CartMimic - A mimic that has taken the form of a Vardanian cart. It has a bulky amount of health and armour, it deals extremely high damage with its savage jaws. It leaps like a giant toad.
TableMimic - A mimic that has taken the form of a Vardanian table. It has a medium amount of health and armour, but it attacks rapidly with its spiked table leg board arm dealing medium damage. In its hostile form it appears sort of like a crab or a whip scorpion.
ChairMimic - A mimic that has taken the form of a Vardanian chair. They sprint around and leap onto their prey, gripping their prey with their legs as they devour them.
HearthMimic - A mimic that has taken the form of a Vardanian hearth. It has four limbs with heavy stone claws, and a shell of stone. The hearth mimic is a highly unusual type of mimic as it can breathe fire. Mimics can learn symbolically to represent the object which they hide as, and in the case of taking the form of a hearth, a mimic atains power over fire. Mimics are not naturally familiar with such a power and thusly weild their power over flames with little control or accuracy. Mimics will accidentally burn their own kind alive with their fire breath while in persuit of their prey. For that reason mimics tend to avoid taking on forms that are strange to them or that seem too dangerous for them. Mimics will only rarely choose to take on this form as most mimics are too cautious to attempt such an unstable form.
Ribback - A large Vardanian breed of spider. The females are larger, spin webs, and live in burrows, the males wander about in pairs hunting without the use of web. The males, when they are both ready to breed, will go to the female and she will pick who will breed with her and who will be her meal. The females will eat their young if they choose to stick around her nest (they age from baby to adult, and reproduce: 8 babies per batch)
Elk - A vardanian quadruped that uses its antlers for self defense, seeks out plants to eat, mates, and can give birth to up to two children at a time.
StovolBeetle - A Vardanian woodland beetle that has an extraordinarily high mandible to body ratio; they scurry leisurely across the forest floor eating small grubs and bugs, as well as detritus.
BlackBeruln - A variety of Beruln that has adapted to living in the woodlands rather than the crags/mountains as its ancestors did; they are smaller than regular berulns, but are slightly more inclined to hunt in groups; they live in the temperate west: they inhabit parts of Western Thengaria and eastern Vardania
Dalger - A black reptilian quadruped with a spiked back and a club tail; they live in the Vardanian woods, and occasionally in the vardanian plains; they lay eggs, build nests, mate, and have relatively good self preservation instincts
Viuda - A giant black widow spider that lives in the black vardanian ash woods; they live in webbed tunnels; they are one of the most venomous animals in all the lands
Turkey - A large Thengan bird that mostly live in the plains. They make nests, lay eggs, and they peck aggressors...
BogTroll - A type of troll that lives in swamps
GhoulFly - A giant black mosquito-like fly that lives in the Vardanian swamps
Leech - A large black translucent leech that lives in the Vardanian swamps; they are know to occasionally hunt in hordes...
Sprite - A powerful reclusive magical being that lives in the Thengan woods. They create fog to hide in when scared, they will devour all who come across them when they are mad, they teleport discreetly usually keeping away from any threat... if they are hungry or mad or if they are just in the mood they will skillfully hunt the player after playing mind games on them and will strike when least expected.
Ker - A large white lobster that lives in the Vardanian Swamps and bogs etc.
Toad - A giant monstrous toad that lives in the Vardanian Swamplands. It drags its prey to their doom with its long sticky tongue.
MudToad - A brown Vardanian toad that lives in the swamplands and feasts on insects. These are not gargantuan like some other varieties of Vardanian toad.
Hydra - A mythical beast of lore that is said to have blood so poisonous that the scent of it would kill a man... (this is false, hydras are poisonous but just slightly) What is true, however, is that when the beast's head is severed two grow in its place. Hydras are aquatic and live primarily in the swamps of Vardania. The only way to kill a hydra is to stab it in the heart.
Palinsyda - A swamp worm native to Vardania. It floats around in the swamp pretending to be a flower until an unwitting victim nears its mouth and it snaps shut around it. It can swim quickly to catch up with fleeing prey as well.
KillerTermite - A breed of giant termite that feeds on flesh; They are native to the southern savannah; They attack in swarms; They make large dirt mounds that they live in; in the season of Bright they grow wings!
Lion - The males are lazy but strong, the females are fast and do the hunting. Lions live in prides and are native to the southern savannah.
Giraffe - A yellow and brown spotted herbivore with an extraordinarily long neck which allows it to eat leaves from tall trees. Though it is an herbivore, it is not friendly if you get too close... it will stomp on you with tremendous force (it harms all enemies it hits at once). They are native to the southern savannah.
Hyena - A spotted hyena. It hunts either solo or in small/medium groups up to six in number. They have a chilling and infamous cackle that is particularly characteristic. They tend to be cautious about which foes they go up against but they are braver when they are in numbers. Though hyenas are certainly known to scavenge other predator's kills for food, the spotted hyena hunts the majority of what it eats itself. If a hyena is fully fed and not in danger it will take a nap. Hyenas are more closely related to felines than to canines, but they are not either feline nor canine, rather they are their own family of creature called "Hyaenidae".
WildDog - A breed of wild dog that has a reddish brown coat of fur and lives primarily in the southern savannah region. They tend to hunt in groups of six, but can sometimes be found in a smaller group. They are fairly intelligent and each pack leader may devise their own hunting strategies. These dogs are particularly annoying as well because they bark almost all of the time!
Gazelle - A southern savanna inhabiting variety of deer-like quadruped, it feeds on grass and can run particularly fast.
Skriatok - An invisible body snatching fairy that is akin to a sprite. They pull living beings into alternate dimensions.
Wendigo - A powerful cursed being which primarily feasts on human flesh, they have long fangs and even longer claws. They can change between wendigo and human form at will. Wendigos are formed when a human consumes the flesh of another human (cannibalism) then either enters a trap set by a leshy (Woodland Spirit), or meets a leshy in person. Wendigos constantly face a ceaseless hunger that drags them in to a deep madness that drives them to kill. Wendigos do not like their curse: in order to get back at the spirit that cursed them they brutalize deer (which are Leshen's favorite protectee).
Cirmusid - An orange slime that is native to Thengaria; they live in filth and feed on detritus, they are happy to eat living creatures as well of course; their ooze has strong chemically mind altering effects (dizziness)
Skindler - Also known as 'bloat head'; it is a Thengan sewer dwelling beast that feeds on excrement and flesh; it releases a gas that putrefies organic matter so as to digest it more easily; it has a single orifice through which it eats and excretes its waste (it is on its lower end); its head, or at least what would commonly be mistaken for its head, is actually a fleshy stomach bag.
Sowt - An armoured tripedal creature that lives in sewage, muck, or waste (detritus dense zones) they feed on detritus as well as flesh. They produce a flem that hardens when it interacts with a compound they produce, the product is a number of long sharp brittle spikes that it propels towards its prey (the compounds that compose the flem are both venemous and poisonous). If it is far from its prey it charges directly forward, otherwise it moves in a zig zagging sort of crab walk towards its prey in order to confuse it.
Fegil - A Vardanian plains rodent that's males collect valuables to impress the females; the females scavenge dalger eggs, and they both feed their young pre-masticated food
GreyTroll - A monstrous woodland troll with grey fur. Grey trolls only hunt when they are hungry and they are particularly territorial about where they make their home.
Griffin - A lionesque raptor that uses its large wings to lunge into a glide towards its helpless prey; they are most commonly found in temperate grasslands but they can also be farther south in the cold seasons
Vodkapa - A burrowing boney swamp beast native to the swamplands of Vardania. When they are born one or two at a time their only priority is to find a place far away from their progenitor to bury themselves. They have a lot of genetic variety, but they are asexual self reproducing beings so their offspring are nearly identical genetic copies (most of their genetic variation is environmentally influenced). They leap from their mounds of mud and swamp foliage to stab to death and devour whatever ill fated creature wanders by, then they bury themselves in the foliage to repeat the cycle again. Vodkapas are extremely territorial and hostile, so much so that they will even kill their own adult offspring if they ever return to the nest (their offspring would just as soon kill them). The only exception to this extreme hostility is when they initially give birth, because they cannot yet smell their young as being any different from themselves (sort of like a discombobulated limb): they regard them as a part of themself until their offspring grow mature enough to develop their own distinct scent.
Chupacabras - A temperate plains dwelling beast that has supernatural speed, two long fangs for sucking blood, and that only hunts during the night. The pelt of a chupacabras is slightly heat resistant and extremely flexible, thusly the heat and tention produced by the beast's unnatural speeds leave no negative impact on it.
Rat - A small rodent that eats carrion; they are highly aggressive and confident when they form a group together, but when they are alone they are cautious. They group up in groups of 6, and 11 at the largest. They cling onto the flesh of their victims and scurry around then gnawing away mouthfuls of flesh from their living corpse.
GreyHorse - A grey variety of horse that is native to Vardania
Mornid - A grey slime native to Vardania that collects weapons and armour from the fallen and uses them for itself; it is a highly intelligent slime; it is relatively inert, it doesn not always produce acid or toxins as do most other slimes (it only produces acid to digest food when it needs to digest); they can be tamed; they are not particularly hostile, nor do they seek to increase their size, they only hunt as needed to maintain themselves or get more gear to wear as a shell or to use as weapons.
Gnoll - A goblinoid hyena species that hunt either alone or in small groups of up to six. They are extremely fast, agile and aggressive and will leap long distances onto their prey. They begin to eat their prey alive even before they have killed it, they grab onto it with their arms and legs and tear flesh off with their jaws. They are native to the southern savnannah of Cephrite. Gnolls has a sort of kinship with hyenas wherein the gnolls are the masters and the hyenas are their defacto guard dogs.
Angler - A large Vardanian Swamp dwelling amphibean that has an antennae that it pokes out above the surface of the murky swamp in order to look like the local stalked trubka plants; it hides below, waiting to pounce on any critter that passes it by unwittingly. They are distantly related to vodkapas and like vodkapas they reproduce asexually through a process of imperfect self cloning, but the two species have evolved in drastically different ways over the centuries: unlike vodkapas, anglers have developed gills for breathing underwater. The strength of a angler's jaw can crush bones.
Motylekh - An enormous forest dwelling moth that bludgeons its prey to death before sucking it dry of blood with its unfurled proboscis. If the motylekh is injured it shudders, releasing a silvery sparkling dust that causes its victim to become faint, weary, and delusional (in particular the feramones present on the motylekh cause a localized psychodelic response to the ingestion of the dust). As young they exist in a larval stage (wherein they are known as chervstrakha), they then seek to construct a web cocoon around themselves in preparation for their metamorphosis into their motylekh form. Their wings are a valuable material used for making clothing, bedding, and other such fineries: in order to utilize the wings for this purpose they must be clipped (debristled) and boiled (in order to remove psychodelic dust).
Pokinutyy - A Vardanian swamp arthropod that feasts on insects. They are very curious creatures that will investigate seemingly harmless creatures, but they are also social and will warn their friends of danger once it is encountered.
ShriekingBloodworm - A long black carnivorous worm that shrieks loudly both to communicate and to scare away predators. The females lay eggs in small holes and cover them with branches and twigs, the males fertalize the eggs externally once they are lain. After a bloodworm has eaten it bloats, which hinders its ability to move quickly. They are aquatic but can survive on land as well. They are native to the floodplain swamps of central - southern Vardania. They often lurk in shallow water waiting for prey to come near.
Varmin - A large rodent that is a not-so-distant relative of rats. They are like rats except that they do not form large groups, they tend to be very solitary, with the exception of their young. They are massive rodents. They live primarily underground and in the grasslands of southern Vardania.
Lyagushka - An amphibeous and carnivorous swamp creature that is native to the southern and central swamps of Vardania. They have Tadpolesque young that are solely aquatic. The males of the species are rich with colours in order to attract mates. Males of the species also excrete an oily faramone rich substance that coats their rough thick skin. They have six eyes and webbed feet...
BrainFlies - A type of fly that lives in the refuse of the Thengan sewage swamp north of Cranheim. They are aggressive and they will squeeze in through the gaps in one's armour in order to crawl into one's ears and lay eggs in their aural fluid. When the eggs hatch into maggots they travel to the brain and eat the brain tissue as sustenance. When mature they live in hives.
Xerocole - A strange camel native to the burning red sands. Their necks are made out of a special type of cartilage that can easily break and almost instantly repair itself, this allows the xerocole to turn its head around in circles endlessly with no need to turn it back. Xerocoles are very friendly, they lick passersby to eat bugs off of them or just to taste their skin. Xerocoles love eating bugs.
Scorpion - A black scorpion that can be found in many desert biomes. Scorpions range greatly in size, some are small, and others are gigantic.
WhipScorpion - A whip scorpion that is native to the burning sands; the medium sizes of them can be mounted and ridden, but Zetians are much more experienced at taming them than most other humans are. They range in size from small to gargantuan.
RaedBeetle - A small red desert beetle that's flesh can be eaten raw or fermented and eaten as a semi alcoholic sour mash. It lives in the northern part of the burning desert. They will attack only when the target looks weak or vulnerable, but will otherwise run away.
DesertLizard - A small reddish bearded dragon native to the burning red sands.
Rattler - A type of snake that has a special part at the end of its tail that it shakes to produce a loud rattling sound. It makes this sound to scare potential predators away; if you near it despite its warning it will strike you with its venomous fangs.
Barbol - A giant bearded dragon that is native to many different desert biomes. They are particularly lazy and do not like to move about much, but when they are hungry or mad they will persue their prey viciously.
Voaii - A giant red locust species that comes in several forms: winged locust, wingless crawler, and when it is a baby, it is a little grub. They lay their eggs in the stomach of their target. They leave their target alive and eventually that fertilized target pukes out the grubs along with blood since the grubs usually start feeding slightly on the stomach lining.
VoaiiYoung - A immature infant voaii grub, they are born from eggs lain inside the flesh of living hosts. The eggs when they hatch make their way to the stomach where they excrete an enzyme which causes the host to expel them orally. They grow into more mature stages of voaii.
Armadii - Giant orange shelled rolly polly bugs native to the Burning Sands. For defense the can curl up in their shell to avoid danger. Zetians ride them and use them to carry their belongings for travel through the desert.
Yilotnyy - A furry shelled mire-dwelling mammalian cross between a shellfish and an eel. They are amphibious. The males are smaller and have large teeth and strong jaws for hunting, while the females are much larger and spit a highly potent acidic flem to melt their prey before the chow down on the melted remains.
CrilmBug - A Vardanian mire beetle that feasts on the carrion of the bog.
Marnica - A brownish-red, black-tentacled, Southern Vardanian bog dwelling creature akin to an octopus but not unlike a leech. It lives in the water but can survive on land too. They latch onto a host using their pronged tentacles which release a compound that numbs the area where it is latched on. This compound that it releases also causes the host to produce copious amounts of blood which is then sucked out through the thin, sharp, hollow prongs on the tentacles. If it is latched onto you, you cannot feel it because the nerves in the area where it is latched on are overloaded with a numbing compound which numbs the area in a way that hinders proprioception (that is to say that the part of your body that it is attached to does not even feel like it is part of your body so you don't notice it).
DaggerFish - A large fish native to the Southern Vardanian Bog. They swim circles in the water and will devour whatever prey enters too deeply into the bog.
Vodmena - A genetic relative of the Vodkapa, they live in the rocky outgrowths in the sourth Vardanian bog lands. They reproduce asexually through self-cloning. They are awfully lazy creatures and they spend much of their time sleeping soundly on the hot sun bathed rocks. They have false eyes on their head to mislead or frighten potential predators, but their real eyes are much more frightening. It has numerous eyes underneath its chin that have a full 360 degree range of vision on a horizontal plane. They are naturally very slim with light weight but durable bones.
Nulga - A bog dwelling rodent native to the southern Vardanian region known as The County of Noth. They are extremely skillful swimmers, but they also know their limits so they will swim to shore if they are tired out from swimming. They swim faster than they can run on land. Nulgas are not particularly social animals, though they can be found in groups at times they do not intentionally work together, nulgas hunt for themselves and themselves alone. Nulgas have a large feathered tail which they use for swimming and for propelling themselves forward as they run.
MudTroll - A variety of troll that is native to Southern Vardania, specifically in the mudflats of The County of Noth. Unlike most other trolls, they are blind as their eyes are covered with a thick layer of skin. Instead of hunting with sight, they have especially attuned hearing and feeling, particularly when it comes to the sound or sensation of something sloshing through deep mud. They also have a strong sense of direction (if a rock hits them from a particular direction they will charge the direction it came from in order to kill their attacker). Like all other trolls they have regenerative blood that can quickly heal their wounds. They have evolved to have their toes and fingers fused into clublike appendages. When a mud troll charges a foe it accelerates rapidly into its charge. They are also adept at hunting moving targets (as long as their target remains in the mud where they can sense them).
Sagro - A southern Vardanian Bog dwelling giant salamander that eats bugs and small animals and detatches its tail when in danger in order to distract its predators with a free meal.
BogWasp - A large Southern Vardanian stinging insect that dwells in the warm southern bogs at the southmost edge of Vardania. Their sting is venomous. Bog wasps are larger, and lazier than their orgish sister species, glade wasps.
MudStrider - A Southern vardanian creature that lives in the hot mud of the bog. Their long legs allow them to easily traverse a terrain that entraps most others, which provides them security from many predators. They are herbivorous but will attack by impaling creatures with its legs as a mechanism of self-defense.
Capul - A brown isopod distantly related to the desert dwelling armadii from an oceanic relative from the times when both the southern desert and the sourthern region of Vardania were below the ocean. This creature lives in the southernmost bogs of Vardania and hunts for bugs and weeds in the mud. Given their ancestral background they are ironically maladapted to water, their heavy shells cause them to sink quickly and drown. In fact, while most Isopods roll up into a ball to protect themselves from predators, capuls have had a history of being rolled into bodies of water by giant hungry sagros whenever they curled up, so they have behaviorally adapted to avoid curling up.
Udnal - A Southern Vardanian bog dwelling mammal that basks in the sun on the shores of the murky bog, or soaks in the murky waters. They are moderately territorial, but otherwise they are not particularly hostile, they will not seek out conflict for the most part. The primarily attack with their tail, using it to bludgeon their persuer.
LeafCutterAnter - A Cephrian Jungle dwelling variety of anter that live off of an underground fungus which they cultivate by feeding it elche leaves. They have an acidic bite and they will stop at nothing to complete their tasks in service of the queen.
Beholder - A floating tentacled eyeball creature from the space between space, the dimension between dimensions, the realm that is the source of all magic.
Rifter - An arcane beast formed of magical energy that comes from the space between space, the dimension between dimensions, the realm that is the source of all magic.
Mudman - A mysterious creature that dwells deep in the mud of Noth. The Noth believe them to be their cursed ancestors who fell in battle long ago and whose fury and will to defend their land has caused them to arrise and fight again... Others think that it might be a goblinoid species.
Eemeg - A large mud dwelling insect that forms mounds of mud that they use as a temporary and disposable shelter. They are native to the County of Noth in the south of Vardania. They usually come in smarms of 4-6 but they can be found solitary as well as they sometimes wander far away in search of food. They may also be found in a larger group of 8-10, but this is rare.
Husk - The papery flesh shell of what once was a female human that has been co-opted by a husk parasite and turned into a reproductive parasite factory. Husks inhabit the near death corpse of females of the particular species that they are compatible with, the parasite abandons most of its body to enter the body of the host which it will turn into a hive over an excruciatingly painful one week long incubation period wherein it keeps the host alive as it connects itself to their nervous system. Husks do not know how the host originally used its body, so they experiment and do whatever works best for them initially. The original type of host husks adapted to were ghouls, because husks live underground primarily, and ghouls tunnel deep underground and sometimes come into contact with this gruesome parasite. Husks eat all creatures that they are incapable of turning into reproductive hives. Husks can actually survive without a host, but they repoduce much faster with a host so their perogative is inhabit hosts to make nests. Husks can only turn females into nests because they need their host to have a womb (or womb like organ in the case of non-mammals) in order to coopt the creatures reproductive mechanisms for their own multiplication. Strangely, while husks can be made from humans, they cannot adequately interpret the genetic sequences of humans, and thusly the original huskling form is what is birthed rather than the normal DNA mimicking variety of offspring.
Huskling - The original form of the husk parasite. Husklings can take many forms since they can read and steal the DNA from their host parent to attempt to make genetic improvements to new offspring that are spawned. Out of the species that husklings have learned to infect, humans remain uniquely difficult for husklings to gene steal from, and thusly husklings do not become genetically altered when birthed by a human host.
GhoulHuskling - The baby ghoul-like spawn of a husk infected ghoul. Ghoul huskling's skull is infused into their body as husk genetic sequencing is often imperfect, this causes their vital organs to be protected behind a thick layer of bone. Husk parasites utilize the DNA of their host in order to create offspring that imitate the form of the host mother.
ToadHuskling - The tadpole-like spawn of a husk infested toad. Husk parasites utilize the DNA of their host in order to create offspring that imitate the form of the host mother.
Harvestman - A tall long legged Nothian insect that uses the sharp scythe like hooks to chop down protuberances from the abundant qiao plants that it lives around. It eats these protuberances as its main source of food. Since there is a large amount of oil stored in these qiao protuberances that it feeds on, its flesh is naturally inundated with oil. When it comes in contact with fire it will burn easily and then explode... Harvestmen are non-hostile herbavores, but they will defend themselves from predators by slicing at them with their hooks. They are sometimes referred to as harvesters.
GhoulHusk - The papery flesh shell of what once was a female ghoul that has been co-opted by a husk parasite and turned into a reproductive parasite factory. Husks inhabit the near death corpse of females of the particular species that they are compatible with, the parasite abandons most of its body to enter the body of the host which it will turn into a hive over an excruciatingly painful one week long incubation period wherein it keeps the host alive as it connects itself to their nervous system. Husks do not know how the host originally used its body, so they experiment and do whatever works best for them initially. The original type of host husks adapted to were ghouls, because husks live underground primarily, and ghouls tunnel deep underground and sometimes come into contact with this gruesome parasite. Husks eat all creatures that they are incapable of turning into reproductive hives. Husks can actually survive without a host, but they repoduce much faster with a host so their perogative is inhabit hosts to make nests. Husks can only turn females into nests because they need their host to have a womb (or womb like organ in the case of non-mammals) in order to coopt the creatures reproductive mechanisms for their own multiplication.
ToadHusk - The papery flesh shell of what once was a female toad that has been co-opted by a husk parasite and turned into a reproductive parasite factory. Husks inhabit the near death corpse of females of the particular species that they are compatible with, the parasite abandons most of its body to enter the body of the host which it will turn into a hive over an excruciatingly painful one week long incubation period wherein it keeps the host alive as it connects itself to their nervous system. Husks do not know how the host originally used its body, so they experiment and do whatever works best for them initially. The original type of host husks adapted to were ghouls, because husks live underground primarily, and ghouls tunnel deep underground and sometimes come into contact with this gruesome parasite. Husks eat all creatures that they are incapable of turning into reproductive hives. Husks can actually survive without a host, but they repoduce much faster with a host so their perogative is inhabit hosts to make nests. Husks can only turn females into nests because they need their host to have a womb (or womb like organ in the case of non-mammals) in order to coopt the creatures reproductive mechanisms for their own multiplication.
Xormid - A mysterious black ooze that dwells underground. It is radioactive and feeds on radiation. It also feeds on flesh. It creates replicas of itself by taking over the organic material of other creatures.
NothianSnapjaw - A small gator native to The County of Noth in southern Vardania. When it bites it clings on to its prey and twists and wiggles before letting go. They are larger on average than their Orgish relatives.
Gargoyle - A beast of the night that becomes locked in a form of stone during the day
Libelula - A giant yellow dragonfly native to the glades of Orgell and also occasionally found in the southernmost region of the county of Noth
QuillWolf - A hard grey spiney-quilled, long-bodied, wolfish creature that is native to the grassy plains of southern Vardania. They live in the sharp ostryy grass where they hunt fegils and lone rats.
Gremlin - A strange creature that has two forms, one form is often referred to as a gremling and is covered in puffy white hair, they dash around the Nothian south eating small bugs and low growing foliage, they have large eyes and are quick to become fearfulness when presented with imminent danger. If a gremling gets wet during the daytime it will lose its hair and form into an elastic flesh egg sac made of its own body. It will inevitably die in this process but it will spawn between two to three offspring. However, if one of these egg sacs hatch during the night, dawn, or dusk hours a completely different type of offspring will be spawned: these are what are most commonly called gremlins. Gremlins have leathery smooth skin and live primarily in the water (unlike gremlings which often drown in water). Gremlins are fierce predators unlike gremlings they will charge at and attack other creatures in order to eat them. Gremlins have a habit of drowning their prey in the water as they eat them so as to make eating them more practical. Gremlins will drag their prey toward any source of water that they are aware of nearby in order to do this.
Bahvseg - A large winged predator native to the qiao wridden lands in the southernmost region of the Vardanian County of Noth. They glide between the qiao in order to stay above their prey and swoop down for a surprise attack. They have a hard ringed shell like that of an armadillo, but their wings resemble those of a bat, only far larger. Bahvsegs love to gourge themselves on nulgas and gremlings which live abundantly in their native habitat.
Khorkhoi - A saggy, thick fabric-like skinned insect found exclusively in the southernmost region of the County of Noth. They have a muscle that allows them to breath in extra air to inflate their body in order to be able to either float on water if need be, or to scare away predators that preferr not to mess with larger creatures. They almost exclusively prey on little bugs, and despite their large size they are not particularly hostile to other creatures. If they die before they deflate they deflate slowly, whereas when they are alive they can force the air out of themselves quickly with their air sac muscle.
BullFrog - A green variety of frog with a yellow belly. They are native to the Leikshor region of Thengaria.
Shelisher - A variety of crab native to the Leikshor region of Thengaria that wears the shell of an Ormid in order to cover its tail which hosts its vital organs.
Olmid - A spiral shelled slime that produces a substance akin to mother of pearl to create its shell naturally. They feed on insects and carrion. They are native to the Leikshor region of Thengaria.
MobaWorm - A small brown worm that is mostly found around the Leikshor region of Thengaria, but is also in other parts of Thengaria as well. They tend to live around high moisture areas.
BridgeTroll - A greyish-tan furred variety of troll that is native to the Leikshor region of Thengaria. They are named for their tendency to be found sleeping underneath bridges. However, bridge trolls do not particularly sleep under bridges any more often than they sleep elsewhere. Bridge trolls just sleep a lot...
Moppot - A giant hairy furball creature that is native to the Leikshor region of Thengaria. They are herbivorous, their favorite food is roots. They use their clawed paws to dig for roots, they root around eating bits of plant material, and roots. The male offspring of this species are born excited and ready to procreate, in fact this species' males become infertile shortly after birth. The females of the species are not biologically ready to procreate until they are slightly older and larger, they too lose their ability to procreate after their childhood is over.
Fae - A feminine human-like form of fairy that has wings resembling those of a dragonfly. The bones of a fae are light and hollow, and the facial and skeletal structure is distanct from those of humans, yet they are close enough for them to appear human-like in an uncanny way. Fae tend to live in large groups, the main area they are sighted in is the Leikshor region of Thengaria. When in danger fae defend each other by turning human attackers into frogs. Fae are are usually very difficult to notice even when they are in plain sight, a great deal of concentration is needed to recognize them.
Laumei - A hard shelled, many eyed, land dwelling herbivore that is native to the Leikshor region of Thengaria. They are particularly aggressive to creatures they deem potential predators, however they leave herbivorous creatures alone for the most part. When they percieve danger they may choose to hide in their shell like a turtle. They are not a turtle though, they have a drooping root-like tentacle mouth, so yeah...
Ibabi - A large aquatic serpent-like beast that lives in the shimmering water of the Leikshor region of Thengaria. The have a headlike shape tail that they can whack things with and use to trick any potential following predators that they are looking toward them when they are actually swimming away. They have six eyes and a strong sense of echolocation using vibrations in the water. Similar to a boa constrictor they often eat their prey whole, though they have extremely sharp teeth that they can use to chew up their prey if it gives them any trouble.
Eglim - A thick smooth skinned, light green carnivore that is native to the Leikshor region of Thengaria. They have two legs and a large toothy mouth. Their favorite food is bullfrog.
Kthetrat - A mamalian creature native to the Leikshor region of Thengaria. It is known for its aggressive nature and its long, sharp claws.
Saelcheag - A large blue and purple carnivorous toothed slug that is native to the Leikshor region of Thengaria. The lift their body up to expose their rows of sharp pointed teeth and then they contort their body to consume their prey.
Bovine - A skinny, underfed dairy cow that is native to the gray grass plains of Vardania.
Moderr - A dark shelled hollows dwelling creature akin to a lobster. They are immune to the flesh eating bacteria that make the water of the hollows black, and they occasionally use this environmental trait to their advantage by eating the remains of animals such as migrating birds that have the misfortune to land on the black water.
AntherFly - Anther flies are cursed beings that have an insatiable appetite, metal piercing jaws, and a taste for murder. A Vardanian Hollows dwelling flying insect that group together in swarms to eat and or kill large creatures. Annther flies are like air piranahs, they can eat flesh at an improbable rate and usually come in large swarms, that could rend of person of flesh in mere seconds. Anther flies kill for offensive defense, that is to say they will kill even when not hungry to feel safe from external aggression.
