//IN GAME
    //FREYNOR
    Tor - House Tor rules the city of Teshir and its surrounding lands ranging from these extremes: [W: w1 E: e3 N: n1 S:s2]
    Stambjord - House Stambjord controls the port city of Venning and its surrounding lands and hamlets extending from: [W: w1 E: e9 N: n5 S: n2]

    //NIRWADEN
    Altezor - House Altezor is a powerful family bearing the titles of High Lords and Ladies (for their family was once royalty before they were conquered By Nirin)

    //THENGARIA
    Beulingerr - House Beulingerr is powerful and rich and controls a vast amount of land and resources in Thengaria
    Thent - House Thent rules a small, but very wealthy city in eastern Thengaria as well as its surrounding lands and hamlets

    //CEPHRITE
    Anset - House Anset is a wealthy and powerful cephrian family near the heart of Cephrite that controls significant holdings. Their house is deeply embedded in the ancient culture and customs of Cephrite. The head of house Anset died leaving his daughter as the only heiress to the family inheritance and its rank within the Cephrian Council, the heiress to house Anset married the head of the house of Blackwood, and together they rule vast holdings.
    Blackwood - A Cephrian house that controls the far north-western part of Cephrite. House Blackwood was once a Vardanian house before Black Lake and the surrounding lands were taken from Vardania by Cephrite when Vardania tried to take land from Cephrite and was pushed back well past its old border. Since then the blackwoods who were granted mercy in exchange for fealty have only intermarried with Cephrians for hundreds of years, so their old Vardanian heritage is only very slight.

    //ORGELL

    //ALDREKAI

    //VARDANIA
    Vorcaneous - House Vorcaneous is a Vardanian countship  that controls a moderate swath of land in the eastern province of Vardania
    Krovhyuzka - House Krovhyuzka is a Vardanian countship that controls significant holdings in southeastern Vardania.

//NOT YET ADDED
Soleiri - House Soleiri controls a medium sized city in the north eastern part of the Nirwaden Empire
Kastabolg - House Kastabolg rules an expansive chunk of northern Thengaria, he is ethnically from the north of Thengaria which endears his people to his rule (their loyalty to Thengaria is strongly dependent on house Kastabolg's leadership)
Bellister - House Bellister rules a large expanse of land in southern Thengaria
Hargrave - House Hargrave is a fairly minor house that holds a small city just near the border of Thengaria and Vardania
Gruzblou -  House Gruzblou is a Vardanian countship that controls vast holdings in the northeastern part of Vardania.
Hanzai - House Hanzai's colours are grey and black they control a land bordering the hollows in the north east part of Orgell.
Quzume - House Quzume's colours are purple, pink, and salmon. They are wealthy and have large holdings in the central northern region of Orgell.