//NOT YET IN THE GAME
    //FARM
Alcachofa - an artichoke plant...
Berenjena - an eggplant/aubergine plant...
Onion - an onion...
    //WILD
Karm - A southern temperate bush that hosts a small green fruit
Clobe - A plant that grows in temperate regions that has three swollen curved leaves full of a thick green sap
OgoTree - A tropical tree that bears energizing ogo fruits
DesertPoppy - A poppy plant that grows in the far south in the burning desert; its seeds can be made into opium
Heyol - A freydic berry bush that hosts small green berries that are bitter and medicinal
Krogi - A black ringdome-capped mushroom that grows in the Vardanian Hollows and the Cephrian region of Black Lake eating this mushroom raw causes near-permanent paralysis, cooking it breaks down those enzymes enough that it becomes edible, though eating it numbs your whole body for a while...
UkuvaTree - A tree that grows in the hollows, it is not used for anything as its wood is too soft to make structures and too brittle to use for artisanry. (use longevity to adjust its size: 0.8min - 1.7max)
Thruum - A fungus that grows in the hollows that extends out fungal branches to soak in nutrients from the air. When it has soaked in enough, it closes its fungal branches together and forms a pasty substance that it uses to grow its mycelium underground.
AtsuiBamboo - A variety of bamboo that grows in the Orgish Jungles. This type of bamboo is a favorite food for Panda bears, and it can be a home to Ha bugs. (longevity: 2 = webbed, 1 = Ha bugs, else = normal)
PinkScretil - The largest form of scretil, this grows in the Orgish bamboo jungles. This is also the only form of scretil that bears an edible fruit.
Scretil - A faded green variety of scretil that grows in the Orgish bamboo jungles.
Olmhaka - A green and blue water plant native to the Orgish Glades, it is known for its distinctive orb-like, protrusiony flower.
Unlin - A bright blue and green water plant native to the Orgish Glades that is extremely poisonous
Ketsueki - A white fungus with red liquid filled bubbles all over it. If eaten it will cause its consumer to overproduce blood and die. (longevity: true = small version, false = larger version)
Eneoji - A pink bush covered in delicate petal-like golden-pink leaves that contain a compound that is extremely addictive that enhances its consumer's speed and energy, but causes them to burn through their body's fat stores at a dangerous rate.
Milsan - An orange flower that grows in the Orgish jungle and that has poisonous green filtration pods
Hikari - A slime-like fungus that grows on the walls of tropical caves (almost exclusively in the Orgish glades) it eats a bug called the purpura bug which it uses as an energy source to create purple light which it uses to attract more purpura bugs in order to get more food, and so the cycle continues...
Spali - A red bush with wide, thin, pointed, red leaves. Bushmaster snakes, one of the most venemous types of snakes in the world, love the scent of the leaves, and the bush's potential for providing it natural camoflauge, and so they may be found resting inside of this type of bush.
    //ITEMS NOT YET ADDED
Bamboo - Tall orgish bamboo (information: 1 = packed, 0 = spread) (extra: 1 = webbed, 2 = burnt chopped, else = normal)
BirchTree - Thin trees with white and black speckled papery bark on their trunks (longevity: normal size 1min - 1.5max blood wood size 1min - 1.7max) (information: 1-5 different fall colours, 6 blood wood year round)

//ALREADY IN GAME (to create a plant with the scenery class these plants must be made all lowercase, and you should write Plant at the end unless it is a tree)
    //FARM
Potato - A common starch that is an important part of the diet of many people
Carrot - An orange root vegetable that has many important vitamins
Harst - A hardy dark grain that grows in the least hospitable of cold northern environments but that can also flourish in temperate regions
Santh - A rich light bodied grain that prospers in fair weathered climates, but can survive in temperate weather conditions
Suuli - A sweet northern melon that grows only in northern temperate and southern frosted regions
Pumpkin - A northern and temperate orange gourd plant used in certain culinary traditions as well as to make carved gourd lanterns
ChonaTree - An orchard tree that grows pink fruits
PolyapaTree - An orchard tree that grows small pear-like fruits
Cabbage - A vardanian/thengan food staple that is cultivated in farms
Wheat - A tropical/temperate grass that yields a wholesome grain that can be milled into bread or fermented.
Garlic - a small green shoot that has a white papery bulb that is very useful in cooking and in alchemy
Hops - a bush with nice smelling nubs called hops
Saffron - a small purple flower plant that grows exclusively in the tropical south that's stamens are used as an exotic spice
    //WILD
PineTree - A pine tree
GreatPineTree - A large variety of pine tree that grows in Thengaria, and in some parts of the North (set information to "snowy" to make it a snow covered tree) (use longevity to adjust its size: 5min - 9max)
YeolTree - A tree that grows in the savannah and that drops pods that contain 'yeol nuts'
AshaiTree - A temperate black Vardanian tree that has white wood. //scenicList.push(new Scenery("ashaiTree", x, y, rotation, size));
AcaciaTree - A far-southern variety of savannah tree (use longevity to adjust its size: 0.7min - 1.9max)
Grushweed - A thick bushy temperate plant that grows in the kellish plains
Neprilne - A temperate woodland plant that has little blue berries that grow along the outer edges of its leaves
Glin - A brown poisonous temperate woodland mushroom that can be eaten if boiled for a large amount of time
Halcif - A white poisonous temperate woodland mushroom that is so toxic that one must wear gloves in order to pick it to avoid its effects
Cyrinthilim - A poisonous red woodland mushroom with white speckles that grows in temperate climates, when consumed it induces a psychedelic drug trip
Culpris - A small green temperate plant that upon its consumption releases healing enzymes
Tylun - A rare pink northern/temperate woodland flower that is seen as a symbol of wealth and power among freydic nobility
Ulgoy - A carnivorous temperate woodland plant that attracts its victims with its sweet smelling nectar which is sticky and digests its victims
Aker - A northern/temperate woodland berry bush that has numerous red berries
Haeflower - A pointed leaf blue flower that grows in the craglands in the northern/temperate regions, when its polen is consumed it induces a psychedelic drug trip
Teppreklia - A fungus that grows throughout the inner veination of certain temperate vine plants and that then sprouts bulbous yellowish pertrusions from the tips
Bequon - A temperate woodland plant that has three long leaves and produces a bulbous purple fruit in its center
Tenic - A temperate plains plant that produces a white substance that can be used to make dye
Palnt - A white temperate plains flower that is poisonous to consume but which has a root that is a staple food
Sesre - A temperate bog plant that shines in the darkness
Weg - A dark branchy bog plant that hosts a massive root that can be eaten as a hardy starch after being boiled
Wightbloom - A northern berry bush that yields elongated grey berries
Lorkweed - A spiny temperate bog shrub
Ish - A temperate plains bush that is indeed bushy
Itlin - A temperate plains bush that grows primarily in the kellish plains, it strangely takes the form of a peculiar and small tree; it is also considered to ward away evil spirits
Buttermellow - A temperate yellow plains flower
Muf - A small temperate plains plant that produces a light green fiber that is used to make clothing
Wyr - A vinatious green plant covered in leaves that grows in wooded temperate regions
Luuf - A small temperate berry bush that has light green berries and is usually found in parts of the kellish plains
Bushka - A northern berry bush
Plutt - A temperate woodland berry bush that grows significantly large purple berries
Stomwik - An odorous temperate woodland plant
Techi - A common weed in the temperate region around the kellish plains that is used to make tea
Ogard - A small brown plant that has a large hard nut-like fruit that can be used as a spice
Vorlym - A dazzling plant with several purple flowers each with two large velvety petals (grows in temperate regions particularly in western grasslands)
Gallosh - A pointed petal pink flower that grows in western temperate climates
Kofke - A temperate woodland plant that has pointed leaves
Thalis - A temperate woodland plant that has four thick and twisted leaves (it is hyper-hydrating and it cures silver poisoning)
Callop - A peach coloured temperate woodland berry
Darb - An orange berried bush that's berries grow primarily clustered in the center surrounded by the leafy bush on all sides
Steugiurne - A large fronded temperate woodlands plant with a prominent yellow flower
Brightbloom - A large and voluptuous white flower that grows in both woodlands and grasslands and in both temperate, cold and freezing climates (the name brightbloom is a misnomer because the plant is actually capable of surviving in the harshest of cold climates yet it is named after the warmest season of the year)
Tyrni - A sour/sweet orange arctic berry plant that is covered in barbed spines; one must wear gloves to pick it safely (named after a real life finnish berry tyrni, also called sea buckthorn)
Cornelius - An orange wildflower that grows in the kellish plains and has some use in medicine
Rilthasia - A blue wildflower that grows in the kellish plains and has no practical use other than aesthetic appeal (called love flower by the kels)
Aktaltl - A frondolous plant that has a starchy root and an edible and medicinal leaf; it grows in the savannah and southern temperate areas
Vola - A purple savannah wildflower
Lel - A tri-leaved plant that grows primarily in the savannah; bunches of yellow berries grow from the ends of each leaf
Pochal - a southern temperate / savannah bush that has a multitude of green pods growing upon it
Apotl - A savannah plant that yields incredibly spicy peppers that are often used in southern kellish cooking
Kwom - A desert/savannah plant that yields an extremely sour fruit. They can thrive in a wide variety of hot weather climates, but they do not grow well in high moisture climates such as jungles.
Hrackle - A thorny green savannah bush that produces prickly pods that hold moisture
Blil - A turquoise jungle plant which is famous for its thick red fluid that looks much like human blood
Halgom - An temperate eastern variety of mushroom that is tasty to eat
Iema - A north temperate to temperate plant that has large juicy magenta coloured berries
Erguer - A yellow flower with sweet brown pollen, Nirwaden people have cultivated this plant to make a special type of wine
RedStetrili - A beautiful eastern flower
YellowStetrili - A beautiful eastern flower
OrangeStetrili - A beautiful eastern flower
PeachStetrili - A beautiful southeast/mideastern flower
BlueStetrili - A beautiful southeastern flower
Wobea - An eastern variety of wild fruit plant that grows a single fruit in the center of the plant. During the day time the leaves are covered in needles that make their victims unable to move.
Frijol - A black bean plant that grows primarily in savannah regions but can be sparsely encountered in the southernmost temperate regions
Maize - Corn by another name, it grows in southern temperate and savannah regions
Cerebris - A yellow jungle mushroom that parasitically grows in particular living beings and hijacks their circulatory and nervous systems in order to spread its spores.
Gojii - The most poisonous plant in the lands; it grows in the jungle
Bahab - A colourful and bulbous jungle plant that releases a cloud of hallucinagenic gas to scare away animals that might otherwise represent a threat
Morsh - A wide leaved jungle plant that hosts a large blue puff made of fibers that is used for reproduction
Athergm - A white mushroom with a red paste filled hollow indent on top. This mushroom releases white spores that drive creatures temporarily mad when they breath them in, the spores also cause their victim to become sapped of energy. The mushrooms are extremely poisonous to eat.
Decipula - Man eating venus flytrap plants. There are two types in the code "decipulaBasePlant" which is for the unit type and "decipulaPlant" which is the plant only kind.
Valum - A small carnivorous pitcher plant that eats insects and small flying critters that get too close
SonjaTree - A large tree with numerous branches that bear delicious sonja fruits in the seasons Bright, and Frost; it grows in the jungle.
Crilk - A jungle bush that has blue fruits with yellowish spots: the fruits are squishy because the skin is rubbery; the fruits are filled with a thick liquid goo that suspends the numerous little black seeds inside; they are very poisonous to eat.
SelvaTree - A large jungle tree with very long twisting branches. jungle trees: 0 = normal, 1 = torper nest, 2 = borea perch //scenicList.push(new Scenery("selvaTree", x, y, rotation, type));
Marigold - A temperate Thengan flower bush that yields orange flowers
Jolle - A Thengan flower bush that has several pretty blue flowers
Palgga - A large flower bush with sweet floral smelling pink flowers that can be made into perfume
Fallory - A large flower bush that has pinkish red flowers that are used as a large part of romantic culture in Thengaria: they are scattered on the floor for a wedding for instance
Aberdom - A Thengan variety of mushroom that grows in the misty woods it is poisonous to consume and has white and black stripes encircling the cap
Ciprin - A white capped mushroom with small black speckles that grows in the Thengan misty woods
Beunum - a short Thengan mushroom that has a black cap with white dots
BleedingHeart - A temperate Thengan plant that has branches that host drooping heart shaped flowers
Eyewort - A thengan medicinal herb that has a red stalk with eyelike buds along its length: the stalk is poisonous, the leaves are medicinal.
Scilt - a hard long leaved bush that grows in thengan woodlands (temporary determines the plant variety, information determines its size)
Laumin - A small bush with clusters of purple flowers growing from stems; it grows in Thengan woodlands
Korceida - A large red petalled flowered leafy plant that grows in the Thengan woodlands
Hoil - A rough leaved musky smelling sap filled plant
Porstol - A small berry bush that grows in the north to mid west, particularly in Thengaria; its berries are poisonous
Cranberry - A berry bush that grows in Thengaria and in parts of Vardania
Chyoul - A thorny berry bush that has tiny blue berries that grow in clusters; grows in Vardania
Thegolthorn - A carnivorous thorn plant that is particularly acidic (two sizes based on longevity input true and false)
Ameloy - A sweet smelling white and black flower bush that grows in Vardania
Mekle - A small green bush that grows in Vardania. It has a rapid growth rate... (when picked it grows back soon after)
Laicaum - A grey leafy bush that hosts plump black coloured berries; the berries are poisonous, but the plant's leaves have a small amount of special fluid inside them that has healing properties.
Thadine - A black leaved bush that grows in Vardania (two varieties based on longevity input true and false)
Sala - A red nirwaden wildflower that grows in the grasslands
Gribnoy - A Vardanian mushroom that grows on the trunks of ashai trees
Poegroon - A variety of Vardanian mushroom that is fairly poisonous, and that produces an alchemically important oil
Maleot - A large dark grey Vardanian mushroom that is moderately poisonous
Iod - A green stalk-like fungus that grows in the Vardanian woods; it can be characterized as a carnivorous plant because it actively decomposes nearby carrion for use in its nutrient cycle using limb stalks that it maintains underground most of the time; iod fungus actively seeks to grow the reach of its mycelium, and when it has reached its capacity for growth it duplicates itself at the edge of its mycelium in order to expand even farther.
Danzig - A black fern plant that grows in Vardania.
Yaihef - A jungle bush that yields thirst quenching light blue berries
Tialo - a temperate eastern greens
Mustard - A wild bushy plant that grows in the plains of Thengaria that has little yellow flowers and that hosts seeds that are a flavorful spice
Mandrake - human shaped root that when uprooted will let out a scream so terrible that those who hear it will lose their soul (it will literally flee their body to escape the sound; undead are not affected by it)
SwampLily - A beautiful pink flower that grows on lily pads
Cattail - A swamp grass that grows in the Vardanian swamps
Borsht - A swamp beet that grows in the Vardanian Swamplands. It grows in water.
Tchafula - A fruit bush that grows in the southern savannah, it has sweet orangish pink fruit and instead of leaves on its branches it has an orange hair like substance
Tchalta - A cactus that grows in the southern savannah, it has a large red flower with yellow pollen and its leaves have spines along their perimeter. The spines if they poke you release a weak acid that produces a painful burning sensation in your skin.
Nupala - A bush covered in sticky seed bearing puff balls that grows in the southern savannah
Zwaleim - A generic bush that grows in the southern savannah
Glaza - A small bush that grows in the southern savannah that's root is poisonous and is used to make powerful weapon-applicable venom paste
Elche - A bushy razor edge leaved bush that grows at a rapid pace. Its leaves can be used to make a medium strength antivenom/antidote.
Xium - A large light blue jungle mushroom that has sticky spore pods that it shoots off in order to spread. They infect jungle trees such as selva and sonja and use them as hosts to release yet more spores.
Saug - A long tuber plant that has some light hair-like fibers that protrude from the ground
Kozlyak - A small edible vardanian mushroom that blends in with the dark forest floor upon which it grows
OstryyGrass - A tall grey type of Vardanian wild grass that's blades of grass are literally as sharp as a blade.
Mawe - A desert cactus with a aromatic blue flower and quenching blue watery flesh.
Naib - Actually spelled Na'ib. A spineless cactus that has several long thick arms. It can be processed to make a cactus based alcohol.
Inum - A desert bush thats grass-like blade leaves can be chewed for their slight sourness.
Anjay - A cactus that is native to the Zetian desert. A psychoactive/hallucinagenic cactus that has white creamy flesh and a large orange flower that holds the majority of the cactus's psychoactive hallucinagenic compound.
Eisyncryne - A spined membrane curtain plant that hides a rich fruit in its depths. It is native to the dark woods of southern Vardania.
Cauw - A black plant with white speckled leaves that grows in southern Vardanian forests. In the season of bounty the leaves are just coming in and have not matured yet, in order to protect its immature leaves the plant's young leaves are poisonous to consume.
Hesk - A Vardanian swamp fungus that grows as a thick underground mycelium that forms fist sized bubbles that contain swamp gas. The swamp gas stored in the thousands of bubbles throughout the mycelium release their gas through the primary fungal pod associated with the mycelium when a creature that is deemed nutritious enough passes it by. The gas kills the creatures in the vecinity and their nutrients soak into the muddy mire and the mycelium below.
Royla - A water plant that grows in shallow water in the Vardanian floodplains. Its long roots stretch out loosely holding the plant in place and giving it stability in the water.
Toadstool - A Vardanian mushroom that grows in the central and southern swamps of the east of the kingdom
Thimblecap - A tiny Vardanian mushroom that glows. They grow in the central and southern swamps of Vardania
VardanianMardyl - A common swamp plant in the central swamps of Vardania
Pasha - A flat cactus native to the zetian desert
Trubka - A long stalked red tube plant with a smooth pore covered pod at the top. The stalk of the plant is slick and moist and poisonous to touch.
Rulma - A red flower that grows in the boglands of The County of Noth and it has baige filtration pods
Rona - A red flower that grows in the depths of the deep mud of the boglands in The County of Noth, it has orange filtration pods and it is an important ingredient in alchemy.
NothBrush - Several varieties of swamp brush that are native to the boglands of The County of Noth in Southern Vardania. It is strong and fibrous and its leaves can be woven into string or even rope. (longevity: 0 = yellowgreen 1 = green 2 = blackgreen)(information: true = alive, false = dead) (extra: size)
Bosk - A small bog plant native to The County of Noth in Southern Vardania that has a soft fibrous material that it produces which can be collected and woven into clothing and apparel.
Iloptheora - A plant that is native to the Southern boglands of Vardania in The County of Noth. It produces a thick sticky sap that can harden into an extremely durable substance called ilop.
StepovTree - A leafless tree that grows in The County of Noth in the boglands of Southern Vardania (longevity: true = light, false = dark) (information: 0, 1, 2) (extra: size)
Qiao - A warped and twisted woody, leafy, bush covered in large, flexible, hard, tubular outgrowths. Qiao is native to northern Orgell in the Orgish jungles, as well as The County of Noth in the boglands of the southernmost part of Vardania.
Acretia - A small brownish-reddish-green water plant that grows in the bogs of The County of Noth in southern Vardania
Kroloc - A large brown mud plant with frog-foot-like appendages that grows in the Southern Vardanian Boglands in the county of Noth
GreyScretil - A southern Vardanian plant that grows primarily in the rocky highlands of the County of Noth.
OrgishMardyl - A common swamp plant that grows primarily in the southern most bog of Vardania
Neth - A large tuber that grows above ground, it is edible and has a starchy and mildly gingery flavour.
Laryk - A vardanian plant that grows exclusively in darkness. It feeds principally off of the moisture and particulates in the air.
BloodLily - A vardanian variety of lily that grows in watery or flooded caves. They are very rare, and very valuable as both a medicinal herb and as an alchemy ingredient.
Tarsi - A greenish-grey, grass-like, herb that grows exclusively in the southernmost region of Noth
AppleTree - A temperate tree that yields apples; apple trees grow almost exclusively in Thengaria
